Name:  Vasuman Ravichandran
eMail: vasumanar@gmail.com

Requires:
Python >= 2.7
--:python-twisted

Summary:
A simple file transfer program that requires zero configuration. It discovers peers through IP Multicast and requires no central server to manage all connections. All communication is purely P2P.

Modules:
LMessage:-
A somewhat serial representation of command information.
All commands are denoted by integer indexes. A ':' seperates command key from data. Data items are seperated by a ';' and data members of a single data item are seperated by a '.'. Data members are grouped into tuples to form data items and data items are grouped in lists. Very strict integrity checks are done with the help of custom data validation functions that are supplied on implementation
This module acts as a backbone for both the server-client interface in the FiT module and peer to peer communication as described in the LPDoL module.

LPDoL:-
Stands for Local Peer Discovery over LAN. All peers are registered on a single multicast group and are identifiable by their IP addresses, UID and name. 
It is characterised by three types of messages:-
1.HOOK: It is broadcast on an exponential back-off basis. It contains the (UID.name) of the source peer followed by the (UID.name)s of peers it has already discovered. On recieving his message, a peer whose (UID.name) is not listed in the message will reply by broadcasting a LIVE message
2.LIVE: It is a single member message containing the (UID.name) of source peer. It asserts its existance to all peers on the network
3.UNHOOK: Another single member message, it is broadcast when the peer is about to shutdown.

FiT:-
There is the:-
1.Daemon:A network service that binds itself to a port and services queries from incoming connections.
2.Probe: It connects to a daemon on a remote computer to retrieve file list or start a file transfer.
3.Indexer: Recursively traverses any given directory and lists all files. Now, all files are 'stat'ed and their SHA-1 hashes are calculated according to which they are indexed. A file index is an associative array which has the SHA-1 hash as the key and a tuple of (<filename>,<size>) as the data. Reduced indexes are also generated which simply lists only filenames and strips all path information, and creates a JSON representation ready for transfer.
4.StreamLineProtocol: Both the daemon and probe are built on this protocol. It uses the newline character '\n' as the class seperator for all incoming data is buffered until the class seperator is encountered. The buffered data is then sent to a command handler function. Unless a special handler is registered in which case, no data is buffered and all data recieved is transfered to the special handler function.
Command codes are:-
1. LIST_FILES: Returns a JSON representation of file index
2. LOAD_FILE: Loads the file and waits to begin transfer
3. START_TRANSFER: Denotes the byte range of data to be transferred
4. ERROR: ERR!